alright so I'll alluded to at the end of
the previous video if you actually
started searching for scene builder you
might actually find some old binary some
oracle that you can install and use
but i don't recommend that because they
don't include the latest updates the
javafx so fortunately a company called
gluon has taken the lead in keeping scene
builder up-to-date and what's more they
actually provide installers as well so
that's where we're going to go to get
scene builder so i'm going to go to the
website
....
...and just a reminder
that this is the windows video showing
you how to install for windows if you're
on a Mac refer to the next video where
I actually show you how to do the same as
we're about to do on a windows but on a mac and
just we scroll down this page a
little bit of a look
we can see that we've got various
installers here and linux users even
though i haven't got a separate linux
video you can actually choose one of
these options here to download the
relevant version for your platform but
in this case I'm going to be installing
on windows
the other thing you need to know is
whether you're running 32 or 64 bit
version of Windows if you're unsure go
back and check the installation of Java
video right in section 1 of this course
because actually show you that in
particular video how to check wether
your running of 32 or 64 bit version i happen
to know that i'm running a 64-bit so
this is the version i'm going to choose
the x64 which stands for 64-bit so i'm
going to download that version and you
would download that verision if you're
running 64-bit and obviously the other
version the x86 if you're running
32-bit alright so you can see the bottom
left-hand corner that's downloading so
I'm going to pause the video until it's
finished downloading and then we'll come
back and continue on with the
installation
ok so you can see the download is
completed so i'm going to run the
installer now by clicking it obviously
you'll navigate to the folders and
started it if for your browser doesn't
support the clicking of a downlad like my
browser does look give it a moment to
start
ok so i click on install and notice
the folder its saving it to c users
tim app data local scene builder we'll
need to know that folder later in this
video
now once it's finished installing you
can see it's automatically loaded the
tool and i think i click that twice their
that is why the second install
scene builder started i'm going to
cancel out of that one and the first time
you load it actually asks for your email
address you don't need to register that
unless you want to keep in touch
click on cancel now this is the
standalone version of scene builder so from the
head there were going to be able to
construct and set up fxml screens
but other really cool feature here is
that we can actually configure IntelliJ
to use the scene builder and it means
that we can then access scene builder
from within IntelliJ and I think that's a
far more intuitive way to use it so for
that reason I'm actually going to close
this down here and once I
close down the browser and i'm going to
make sure intelliJ is started and what
we need to do is point IntelliJ to the
location of scene builder that has been
installed on your system to do that
we're going to click on configure click
on settings and come down here to
languages and frameworks click on that
i'm going to select java fx by
clicking it and what we need to do now
is basically put it in or select the path
where scene borders installed so we're
going to click on the ellipse there and if
you recall I said the folder that was
saved to is in the users folder
whatever your username is then it'll be
under app data now you might find that
you can't see files because the
select the hidden files are actually
selected if that's the case come up here
and click on show hidden files and
directories and when i do that i can now see app
data then click on local and scene
builder is the folder that we actually
want theirs scene builder and actually what
we want is want to open that we want to
select scene builder. exe going to
click on OK there and actually put scene
builder in that path and that
gives IntelliJ
the way to actually open up scene
builder from within IntelliJ last thing to
do is to click on OK and at that
point we now configured IntelliJ so
that we can start using scene builder within
IntelliJ for our Java fx
projects so we have done we've
completed the installation ill so unless
you've got a mac skip the next video and
skip on instead to the video after that
where we actually start using scene
builder within IntelliJ so we'll see you
in the next video